# Welcome to the `ethstaker-deposit-cli`!

The [`ethstaker-deposit-cli`](https://github.com/eth-educators/ethstaker-deposit-cli) is a command-line tool forked from Ethereum's [`staking-deposit-cli`](https://github.com/ethereum/staking-deposit-cli) with more functionality and improved performance.

## Important Concerns

This tool generates and/or utilizes mnemonics and validator keystores. Both are highly sensitive materials and their exposure could lead to the loss or theft of funds. Users must take appropriate measures to secure this information.

Here are some core recommendations:

- **Use this tool offline**: We highly recommend using this tool in an offline environment, preferably air-gapped, using a live USB such as [Tails](https://tails.net/install/download/index.en.html).

- **Avoid using passwords or mnemonics as command line arguments**: When executing any command, you will be prompted for the necessary arguments. This prevents the arguments from being stored in your command history which could create an attack vector.

- **Create backups of your mnemonic**: The mnemonic generated by this tool is crucial to your operation and success as a validator. Losing this mnemonic can put you at significant risk of losing your funds. Follow the instructions carefully when creating a mnemonic, ensure you make a backup copy, and store it in a safe location.

## Getting Started

If you want to start creating validator keys, please follow the [Quick Setup Instructions](quick_setup.md) or if you would like to run locally, view the [Local Development Instructions](local_development.md).

The general usage of the CLI is:
```sh
./deposit [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]
```

## Command Options

Each CLI command has a number of command options that can be provided:

- **`--language`**: The language you wish to use the CLI in. Options: العربية, ελληνικά, English, Français, Bahasa melayu, Italiano, 日本語, 한국어, Português do Brasil, român, 简体中文. Default to English.

- **`--non_interactive`**: Run CLI in non-interactive mode. This will skip all confirmation and internet connectivity checks.

- **`--ignore_connectivity`**: Skip internet connectivity check and warning.


## Commands

**You are not required to specify each argument when executing the command. We will prompt you for each argument for security purposes.**

If there is a specific command you would like to understand more, please choose from the following list:

- **[new-mnemonic](new_mnemonic.md)**: Used to generate a new mnemonic, validator keys, and deposit file. It is not recommended to use this command if you have existing validators.

- **[existing-mnemonic](existing_mnemonic.md)**: Provide a mnemonic to regenerate validator keys or create new ones.

- **[generate-bls-to-execution-change](generate_bls_to_execution_change.md)**: Update your withdrawal credentials of existing validators. It is **required** to have the corresponding mnemonic.

- **[exit-transaction-keystore](exit_transaction_keystore.md)**: Generate an exit message using the keystore of your validators.

- **[exit-transaction-mnemonic](exit_transaction_mnemonic.md)**: Generate an exit message using the mnemonic of your validators.

## Contributing

This project is open-source and welcomes contributions from the community. If you would like to contribute to the `ethstaker-deposit-cli`, please read the [Local Development Instructions](local_development.md), fork the project, and create a pull request with a description of the changes you have made and why.

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions while using the `ethstaker-deposit-cli`, please contact us on the [Ethstaker discord](https://dsc.gg/ethstaker).
